Create edit ppa documentation (#561)
canonical/launchpad-manual: docs/user/how-to/packaging/create-ppa.rst

           associated with your profile::

            [print(ppa.name) for ppa in owner.ppas]

        All parameters used to create PPAs are optional. However, you can't
        create a PPA with the same name as an existing one. If ``distribution``
        is not declared, Ubuntu is used by default.

Edit an existing PPA
--------------------

Once a PPA exists, you can change its details either through the web user

> interface or using the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a PPA, you can change its details either through the web user
interface or using the API.
```

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Web interface

        #. Log into Launchpad and go to the PPA's overview page, for example
           ``https://launchpad.net/~/+archive/ubuntu/test-ppa``.
        #. Select :guilabel:`Change details`.

>         #. On the :guilabel:`Edit` page you can change the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        #. On the edit page you can change the following:
```
I think the GUI label should be for details that appear exactly as indicated. This appears as `Edit <ppa-name>`

Author: :+1:

           - :guilabel:`Display name` -- a short title for the PPA.
           - :guilabel:`Description` -- a short description of the PPA. URLs are
             allowed and rendered as links.
           - :guilabel:`Enabled` -- whether the PPA accepts and builds uploaded
             packages.
           - :guilabel:`Publish` -- whether the apt repository is updated. If
             disabled, nothing is published; for a private PPA no builds are
             dispatched either.

>            - :guilabel:`Build debug symbols` -- create debug symbol packages for

Reviewer: What's a debug symbol package and will someone learning how to create and edit PPAs know what it is.

Author: A **debug symbol** is a map that connects compiled, machine-readable binary code back to human-readable source code. When a program is built for normal use, these symbols are stripped out to drastically reduce the file size.

Without debug symbols, if a program crashes, your debugger (like `gdb`) will only show raw memory addresses (e.g., `0x00007fff8234`). With debug symbols enabled, it translates those addresses into actual function names, source file paths, and exact line numbers (e.g., `main.c: line 42`).

In Ubuntu, debug symbols are packed into special packages ending in `-dbgsym` and formatted as `.ddeb` files.

I would not want to add all these infos on the PPA page.

I just checked the Ubuntu Project Docs, and they have a full page for that topic, but that also focuses on getting debug symbols for the archive.
https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/how-to/debugging/debug-symbol-packages/

Ideally, we would have a glossary on our own docs, which could give some background info.

I think we can follow up after this PR.

Author: I see we have one, see https://ubuntu.com/docs/launchpad/user/reference/glossary/ - but that needs some love.

@odadacharles Would you consider adding this to your list of documents to revise? I am happy to work on that in my next doc rotation.

Reviewer: This is already a task (two actually) for the documentation academy 
https://github.com/canonical/open-documentation-academy/issues/350
https://github.com/canonical/open-documentation-academy/issues/351

             builds in the PPA.
           - :guilabel:`Publish debug symbols` -- publish debug symbol packages
             in the apt repository.
           - :guilabel:`Processors` -- the architectures on which the PPA can
             build. Some architectures are restricted and may only be enabled or
             disabled by administrators.

>         #. Select :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        #. Save any changes you've made.
```
It's better to ask users act on an intention, instead of telling them exactly what to do. This also helps with maintenance in case UI elements are updated.

    .. tab-item:: Web service API

        #. Open lp-shell on the terminal::

            lp-shell production devel

        #. Fetch the PPA you want to edit and store it in a variable. Replace
           ``owner`` with ``lp.people[lp.me.name]`` (or the team) and adjust the
           PPA name::

            ppa = lp.people[lp.me.name].getPPAByName(name="test-ppa")

        #. Change one or more of the editable attributes::

            ppa.displayname = "Renamed Test PPA"
            ppa.description = "Updated description for the PPA."
            ppa.build_debug_symbols = True
            ppa.publish_debug_symbols = True

        #. Save your changes back to Launchpad::

            ppa.lp_save()

        #. To change the architectures the PPA can build on, use the
           ``setProcessors`` endpoint (the ``processors`` attribute is read-only
           and cannot be set directly)::

            amd64 = lp.processors.getByName(name="amd64")
            arm64 = lp.processors.getByName(name="arm64")

>             ppa.setProcessors(processors=[amd64, arm64])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ppa.setProcessors(processors=[amd64.self_link, arm64.self_link])
```
This is what worked for me when testing on qastaging. Don't know if there is a cleaner approach.

Author: Great catch! Thank you!

        .. note::

            The :guilabel:`Enabled` and :guilabel:`Publish` options are only
            available through the web interface; they are not currently exposed
            via the API.

Manage archive dependencies
---------------------------

> A PPA can depend on other archives, so that packages published in those
> archives are available when building packages in your PPA. Dependencies can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PPA can have dependencies in other archives, such that packages published in those
archives are required/called when building packages in your PPA. Dependencies can be
```

Author: I think the current phrasing is more correct ("depend on other archives"), and easier to understand. I will keep the current wording.

managed either through the web user interface or using the API.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Web interface

        #. Log into Launchpad and go to the PPA's overview page, for example
           ``https://launchpad.net/~/+archive/ubuntu/test-ppa``.
        #. Select :guilabel:`Edit PPA dependencies`.
        #. On the :guilabel:`Edit PPA dependencies` page you can:

>            - Choose which packages of the distribution's primary archive are
>              used as build dependencies (for example :guilabel:`Basic`,
>              :guilabel:`Security`, :guilabel:`Default`, :guilabel:`Proposed`
>              or :guilabel:`Backports`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           - Choose which packages of the distribution's primary archive are
             used as build dependencies (for example Basic, Security, Default, Proposed, Backports).
```
Once again, intention. Having these as GUI elements is too rigid for what they are

Author: They are GUI elements. See e.g. https://launchpad.net/~launchpad/+archive/ubuntu/buildd/+edit-dependencies. I'd like to keep them as is.

           - Add another PPA as a dependency by entering it in the
             :guilabel:`Add PPA dependency` field.
           - Remove existing dependencies by selecting them under
             :guilabel:`Extra dependencies`.

>         #. Select :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        #. Save any changes you've made.
```

           should depend on::

            ppa = lp.people[lp.me.name].getPPAByName(name="test-ppa")
            dependency = lp.people["some-owner"].getPPAByName(name="other-ppa")

        #. Add the dependency using the ``addArchiveDependency`` endpoint. The
           ``pocket`` is given as a string, for example ``"Release"``::

            ppa.addArchiveDependency(dependency=dependency, pocket="Release")

        **Pin priorities**

        When adding a dependency you can optionally set a ``pin_priority``, an
        integer that controls the APT pin priority used for packages provided
        by the dependency. Higher values make packages from the dependency
        preferred over others. The value must be in the range ``-100`` to
        ``2000``; if omitted, it defaults to ``500``. Pin priorities can only
        be set through the API; the web interface does not yet expose them.

        .. seealso::

            For details on how APT interprets pin priority values, see the
            `apt_preferences(5) manual page
            <https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/stonking/man5/apt_preferences.5.html>`_.

>         #. Add a dependency with a custom pin priority::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        #. To add a dependency with a custom pin priority, include a value for `pin_priority` when declaring the dependency::
```
